# authors-books-sales

Run `node --version` to make sure node.js is installed <br>

### Part 1
SQL statements are in the `part1_queries.sql` file, which is directly under this repo folder.<br>
The database engine being used is SQLite3.<br>
Test data is generated by chatGPT.

### Part 2
`cd server` and run `node index.js` to see the API server
#### Part 2A
1. The url `localhost:8888/top-10-authors` gives a response containing all top 10 performing authors
2. To give a value to the optional query author_name, add `?author_name={value}` after the url `localhost:8888/top-10-authors`. For example: `http://localhost:8888/top-10-authors?auth_name=Sophia%20Thomas`. The input author name is case insensitive, so `http://localhost:8888/top-10-authors?auth_name=sophia%20thomas` also gives the same response in JSON.<br>

Note:
- Don't put quotes around the value of the query parameter.<br>
- It's okay to replace `%20` with a white space in the url. <br>
#### Part 2B
`async` and `await` are used to optimize the performance of the API endpoint

### Part 3
#### How to run the code locally
1. `cd server` and run `node index.js` to start the server, keep this terminal running<br>
2. Open a new terminal, `cd client` and run `npm start`. The frontend of this API should show up in your browser.
#### Steps I did on my computer to deploy this API to Heroku
1. Under the directory `authors-books-sales`, run `npm init --yes` to create a `package.json` under this directory. Add `"start": "cd server && node index.js"` under `"script"` in this `package.json`
2. `cd client`, go to the`package.json`, and change the `"scripts"` into
<pre><code>"scripts": {
    "start-client": "react-scripts start",
    "build": "react-scripts build && (cd ../server && npm install)",
    "test": "react-scripts test",
    "eject": "react-scripts eject"
},
</code></pre>


